# Emre-Cavus-DSA-210-Project
This repository includes the Data Science and Analytics project on identifying and correlating the impact of daily caffeine levels and sleeping hours on daily concentration levels. Via using accurate data collection and Machine Learning models, the project will try to identify the correlation between some aspects that are claimed to increase concentration and diligence (in this case, daily caffeine levels and sleeping hours) and daily concentration levels. 
# Project Outline
1. **Motivation**:
   - I'm a person who loves to consume coffee, and believes that after a certain threshold (about the number of cups of coffee you consume), the duration and quality of the sleep diminishes significantly. One of the main motivations of this project is to find out whether my claim on the impact of daily caffeine levels on sleep quality is valid or not.
   - The other motivation that I have is to find whether there is a correlation between the combination of daily caffeine levels, and sleep duration and the daily concentration levels (which will be measured by the time I allocate to studying and the time I allocate to exercises).
   - If there is a correlation between them, then my greatest motivation will be to find the optimal amount of the combination of caffeine consumption and sleep duration to produce the maximum amount of productivity and concentration, that I will use for myself later on.
  
2. **Data Collection**:
   -  The data that I will be using to represent the daily caffeine levels will mainly have two parts: the amount of coffee that I consume (cups), and the amount of tea I consume(cups). This is because coffee and tea are the two sources of caffeine I consume the most, and I hardly ever consume other types of products that include high levels of caffeine (like coke, energy drinks, supplements...).
   -  The sleep duration will be a little less precise compared to the daily levels of caffeine and concentration levels, because I won't take the time that I spend in bed, but the amount that I actually sleep. Because, most of the time when I go to my bed, there are some distractions around me that prohibits a good quality sleep. Thus, I will predict the time that I start sleeping with a good quality and calculate it from there which may decrease the accuracy of the data by a small portion.
   -  The daily concentration levels will be based on the duration of two activities that I believe requires the most amounts of concentration and indicators of productivity: daily duration of studying and the amount of time I spend on doing sports. The duration of studying will not involve the lectures and recitations that I am attending as they are my responsibilities at some point, but any other type of studying activity will be included. This can be spending time with my friends for a certain project, or individual studies.
   -  I will collect these data between the dates 9 March and 18 April, 2025. After 18 April, I will start the data analysis part which will include statistical interpretations and Machine Learning models. 
